.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Stefano Rivera
.\" Released under terms of the MIT/X/Expat Licence. See COPYING for details.
.TH IBID-PLUGIN "1" "January 2010" "Ibid 0.0" "Multi-protocol Chat Bot"
.SH NAME
ibid-plugin \- Plugin testing developer environment for Ibid (the multi-protocol chat bot)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ibid-plugin
.RI [ options ...]
.RI [ plugin\fR[\fB- ]| plugin\fB.\fIProcessor [\fB-\fR]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is for testing Ibid plugins without the full bot
environment.
This means testing can be performed offline and without loading all the
available plugins.
.P
This should be run in a configured Ibid bot directory.
.P
All the listed plugins and Processors will be loaded on start-up.
Naming a plugin loads the complete plugin.
Suffixing a \fB-\fR to the name, ignores that plugin or Processor
instead of loading it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-configured\fR
Load all configured plugins, instead of only the core and requested
plugins.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-only\fR
Don't load the Ibid core plugins, only the plugins requested.
Note that without the \fBcore\fR plugin to pre- and post-process events,
most other plugins won't function correctly.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-public\fR
By default, \fBibid-plugin\fR emulates a private conversation with the
bot.
With this option, the conversation is considered to be public.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a help message and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ibid.ini
Locates the database to act upon by looking for the \fB[databases].ibid\fR value
in the bot configuration file in the current directory.
.SH BUGS
\fBibid-plugin\fR doesn't emulate a complete Ibid environment, and will
ignore all of the following:
.TP
*
Delayed and periodically executed functions.
.TP
*
Messages to alternate sources.
.TP
*
Messages directly dispatched, rather than added to responses.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ibid (1),
.BR ibid.ini (5),
.BR ibid-setup (1),
.UR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
.BR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
