.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Stefano Rivera
.\" Released under terms of the MIT/X/Expat Licence. See COPYING for details.
.TH IBID-PB-CLIENT "1" "January 2010" "Ibid 0.0" "Multi-protocol Chat Bot"
.SH NAME
ibid-pb-client \- RPC Client for Ibid (the multi-protocol chat bot)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ibid-pb-client
.RI [ options ...]
.BI message " message"
.br
.B ibid-pb-client
.RI [ options ...]
.BI plugin " feature method"
.RI [ parameter ...]
.br
.B ibid-pb-client -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is passing events to a running Ibid instance, or executing
RPC-exposed functions remotely.
.P
It communicates with the \fBpb\fR source on the Ibid.
.P
.I message
is a text message as could be sent to the bot by an IM source.
The message is processed normally by the bot.
.P
.I feature
is the name of the feature to invoke exposed method \fImethod\fR on,
directly.
.IR parameter s
are passed directly to the method.
They can be specified positionally or by key, using the same syntax as
Python:
.IR key = value .
They may be encoded in JSON, if not valid JSON they will be treated as
strings.
.P
The output is a JSON-encoded response.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIHOSTNAME\fR, \fB\-\-server\fR=\fISERVER\fR
Connect to the Ibid running on \fISERVER\fR, by default it connects to
\fIlocalhost\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
Connect to the \fBpb\fR source running on port \fIPORT\fR, by default
8789.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a help message and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
ibid(1),
.UR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
.BR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
