.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Stefano Rivera
.\" Released under terms of the MIT/X/Expat Licence. See COPYING for details.
.TH IBID-FACTPACK "1" "January 2010" "Ibid 0.0" "Ibid - Multi-protocol Bot"
.SH NAME
ibid-factpack \- Factoid-package management utility for Ibid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ibid-factpack
.RB [ -s ]
.I factpack-file
.br
.B ibid-factpack -r
.RB [ -f ]
.I factpack-name
.br
.B ibid-factpack -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is for adding and removing sets of packaged factoids, known as
factpacks, from your Ibid's factoid database.
.P
The default mode is factpack loading.
The \fIfactpack-file\fR specified is loaded into the bot's database.
Should the pack contain any facts with the same name as an existing fact in the
bot's database, loading will be aborted, unless the \fB-s\fR option is
supplied.
.P
When invoked with the \fB-r\fR option, the named factpack (original import
filename minus the extension) will be removed from the bot.
If any of the facts contained in that pack were modified while loaded in the
bot, unloading will be aborted, unless the \fB-f\fR option is supplied.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-remove\fR
Remove the named factpack, rather than importing.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force removal, if facts in the factpack were modified by users.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-skip\fR
Skip facts that clash with existing factoids, during import.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a help message and exit.
.SH FACTPACKS
Factpacks are JSON-encoded text files containing a list of facts.
Each fact is a tuple of two lists: fact-names, fact-values.
The same substitutions are available as in normal online Factoids.
.SS Example:
.nf
[
 [["Hello", "Hi"], ["<reply> Hi There", "<action> waves"]],
 [["Bye"], ["<reply> kbye $who", "<reply> Cheers"]]
]
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ibid.ini
Locates the database to act upon by looking for the \fB[databases].ibid\fR value
in the bot configuration file in the current directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ibid (1),
.BR ibid.ini (5),
.UR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
.BR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
