.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Stefano Rivera
.\" Released under terms of the MIT/X/Expat Licence. See COPYING for details.
.TH IBID.INI "5" "January 2010" "Ibid 0.0" "Ibid - Multi-protocol Bot"
.SH NAME
ibid.ini \- Configuration file for Ibid
.SH DESCRIPTION
ibid.ini contains all the configuration for an Ibid bot.
.P
A complete description of the contents of this file is out of the scope of this
manpage.
For more details see the Ibid documentation:
.UR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/docs/
.BR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/docs/
.P
Lines beginning with \fB#\fR are considered to be comments and ignored.
To use a \fB#\fR symbol in an option (e.g. an IRC channel name), quote the
option with double-quotes, e.g.
.BR channels = """#ibid"","
.P
This file will be written to by the bot when configuration settings are
altered online.
It can also be edited manually and a running bot told to
\fB"reload config"\fR.
Manual edits and comments will be preserved when the bot modifies its
own configuration, provided that they have not been edited since bot
start-up or the last config reload.
.SH SECTIONS
.SS auth
Settings related to permissions and authentication.
Permissions listed in \fBauth.permissions\fR are granted to all users unless
revoked by source or account.
.SS sources
Sources are Ibid connections to an IM service.
They range from IRC networks to the bot's built-in HTTP server.
.P
Each source is configured in a section named after the source.
The source name will define the driver that the source should use, unless a
\fBtype\fR option is provided.
.P
Sources can be disabled by setting
.BR disabled = True .
.SS plugins
Plugin configuration.
Each plugin is configured within a section named after the plugin.
.P
.TP
.B cachedir
The directory that temporary files (such as downloaded data), useful to be the
bot but expendable, is stored in.
.TP
.B core.autoload
If \fBTrue\fR, all plugins not explicitly ignored will be loaded.
(Note that some plugins mark themselves as non-auto-loadable).
Defaults to \fBTrue\fR.
.TP
.B core.load
The list of plugins (or \fBplugin\fR.\fBProcessor\fRs) to load.
.TP
.B core.noload
The list of plugins (or \fBplugin\fR.\fBProcessor\fRs) to ignore and not load.
.TP
.B core.names
The names that the bot should respond to.
.TP
.B core.ignore
Nicks that the bot should completely ignore (e.g. other bots).
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
botname = joebot
logging = logging.ini

[auth]
    methods = password,
    timeout = 300
    permissions = +factoid, +karma, +sendmemo, +recvmemo, +feeds, +publicresponse

[sources]
    [[telnet]]
    [[timer]]
    [[http]]
        url = http://joebot.example.com
    [[smtp]]
    [[pb]]
    [[atrum]]
        channels = "#ibid",
        nick = $botname
        type = irc
        auth = hostmask, nickserv
        server = irc.atrum.org

[plugins]
    cachedir = /tmp/ibid
    [[core]]
        names = $botname, bot, ant
        ignore = ,

[databases]
    ibid = sqlite:///ibid.db
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I logging.ini
A standard Python \fBlogging.config\fR configuration file describing
loggers, handlers, and formatters for log messages.
See
.UR http://docs.python.org/library/logging.html
.BR http://docs.python.org/library/logging.html
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ibid (1),
.BR ibid.ini (5),
.BR twistd (1),
.UR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
.BR http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
